Most of us might have heard buzz around the word "data" which is everywhere, its becoming such a huge deal. Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing, Data Analytics and the ever elusive term Data Science is one term which rules them all.
What is Data Science? Data science is one among the four paradigms of science. The other three being empirical, computational, theoretical, and then is the Data Science which is the fourth aspect of science. We can say that Data Science is multi-dimensional which uses the concepts like Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Statistics. The approach to solve the problems and how you figure out the solutions matters a lot in Data Science. Data Science is for everybody who is curios to solve problems, co-relate the data, understand the algorithms.

With the continuous development in science and technology, it is hard to estimate how far and what else we will be able to establish. According to experts, the future of the world seems to be dominated by Artificial Intelligence. Talking about Artificial Intelligence, Artificial Intelligence refers to the simulation of human  intelligence in machines. It is a field of studies which tries to make computers more smart. Artificial Intelligence has been used in almost every sector. It is probably the fastest growing development in the world of Technology and Innovation. Artificial Intelligence has a potential to greatly improve human life.
The first thing which strikes into our mind when we think of applications of artificial intelligence is Robotics. So the picture you can see aside is of Asimo which is a humanoid robot which can stimulate the motions of the human body. This robot works on the principle of Prediction Movement Control System and is one of the example of Artificial Intelligence.
There are many technologies in AI which includes: Natural Language Generation which converts text into data and helps the system to communicate ideas and thoughts as clearly as possible.

Speech Recognition which is used to convert and transform human speech into a useful and comprehensive format for computer applications to process for example Alexa.
Robotic Process Automation (RPA) refers to the functioning of corporate processes due to the mimicking human tasks and automate them. It also reduces chunk of time.
To talk about the tools, there are numerous tools used in AI which includes ScikitLearn, PyTorch, Theano, TensarFlow, Keras.


Now let us moves towards Machine Learning,  What is Machine Learning? Machine Learning is a subset of Artificial Intelligence which identifies, generates, discriminates and understand patterns of relations. Machine Learning is divided into four types which includes, Supervised Learning, Unsupervised Learning, Semi Supervised Learning and Reinforcement. Machine Learning is the science of teaching machines how to learns by themselves? Well- it has a lot of benefits.  Let us understand it with an example, if there's a task of cleaning the floor. The humans can do this task, but it will consume a lot of time, energy and the human will get bored as well. But if we teach the machines how to clean the floor , they can do it far better than us without getting tired and bored!
Even Walmart uses AI and Machine Learning. Walmart hopes to improve the customer experience with the new retail tech is through Scan and Go Shopping. Let us have a look at few examples where we use the outcome of machine learning already:

Smartphones detecting faces while taking photos or unlocking themselves
Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram or any other social media site recommending your friends and adds you might be interested in
YouTube recommending the videos based on the previous watched videos.
Amazon, Flipkart recommending the products on the browsing history.
Most of the popular companies like Amazon, Alibaba, Grammarly, Riskified and many more uses the technology of AI and ML.


To sum it up, Data Science- Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning looks all set to be the future of the world. Experts believe AI, ML would certainly become a part and parcel of human life soon and would completely change the way we view our world. With Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, the future seems intriguing and exciting.



- Radhika Khadakkar
